Documentation~/cameras.md, before:

# Cameras

A Camera in Unity works like a camera in the real world: it captures a view of objects in 3-dimensional space and flattens that view to display it on a 2-dimensional surface.

Cameras in the Universal Render Pipeline (URP) are based on Unity's standard Camera functionality, but with some significant differences. The most notable ways in which Cameras in URP differ from standard Unity Cameras are:

* The [Universal Additional Camera Data](universal-additional-camera-data.md) component, which extends the Camera component's functionality and allows URP to store additional Camera-related data
* The [Render Type](camera-types-and-render-type.md) setting, which defines the two types of Camera in URP: Base and Overlay
* The [Camera Stacking](camera-stacking.md) system, which allows you to layer the output of multiple Cameras into a single combined output
* The [Volume](Volumes.md) system, which allows you to apply [post-processing effects](integration-with-post-processing.md) to a Camera based on a given Transform's position within your Scene
* The [Camera component](camera-component-reference.md), which exposes URP-specific properties in the Inspector

Each camera in the Scene requires resources for URP culling and rendering. To configure URP for better performance, minimize the number of cameras you use. This also reduces processing time on the GPU.

For a general introduction to how Cameras work in Unity, and examples of common Camera workflows, see [the Unity Manual section on Cameras](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/CamerasOverview.html).

Commit message:

URP Docs: Backport Camera Docs Overhaul [2022.3]
Backports the following PRs to 2022.3 version of URP docs with any version appropriate changes:
- #44239 
- #44926 
- #45311 
- #45429

Documentation~/cameras.md, after:

# Cameras

A Camera in Unity works like a camera in the real world: it captures a view of objects in 3-dimensional space and flattens that view to display it on a 2-dimensional surface.

| Page | Description |
|-|-|
| [Cameras in URP](cameras/camera-differences-in-urp.md)| Understand the differences between Unity's built-in camera and the URP camera. |
| [Understand camera render order](cameras-advanced.md) | Understand the order in which URP clears camera buffers and performs culling and rendering operations. |
| [Camera render types](camera-types-and-render-type.md) | Understand the difference between the Base and Overlay camera types. |
| [Anti-aliasing in URP](anti-aliasing.md) | Apply anti-aliasing effects to a camera. |
| [Use multiple cameras](cameras-multiple.md)| Set up and use more than one camera in a scene to use in a camera stack, a split screen effect, post-processing, or output to a render texture. |
| [Customize a camera](universal-additional-camera-data.md)| Use the Universal Additional Camera Data component to customise a camera's behavior. |
| [Camera component properties](camera-component-reference.md)| Understand how each camera property works in URP. |
