Documentation~/known-issues.md, before:

# Known issues

This page contains information on known issues you may encounter when using URP.

## When importing the URP package samples, Unity does not set the necessary URP asset in Quality > Render Pipeline Asset<a name="urp-samples-known-issue-1"></a>

When importing the URP package samples, Unity does not set the necessary URP asset in **Quality** > **Render Pipeline Asset**, and certain sample rendering effects do not work.

To fix this issue:

In **Project Settings** > **Quality** > **Render Pipeline Asset**, select `SamplesPipelineAsset`.

![In Project Settings > Quality > Render Pipeline Asset, select SamplesPipelineAsset](Images/known-issues/urp-12-package-samples.png)

## Renaming a URP Renderer asset to a name matching one of the Renderer Feature names causes erroneous behavior

If a URP Renderer asset has any Renderer Features assigned, renaming the Renderer asset to a name matching one of the Renderer Feature names causes erroneous behavior: the URP Renderer and the Renderer Feature switch places.

The following scenario shows how the error occurs:

* Let's assume that the URP Renderer in your project is called `UniversalRenderer`.
* The Renderer has a Renderer Feature called `NewRenderObjects` assigned.

    ![UniversalRenderer with Renderer Feature assigned to it.](Images/known-issues/urp-10-renaming-renderer.png)

* Renaming `UniversalRenderer` to `NewRenderObjects` causes erroneous behavior:<br/>The Renderer switches places with the Renderer Feature and does not behave correctly.

To avoid the issue, do not give the URP Renderer asset the same name as the Renderer Feature asset.

To see updates on this issue, refer to the [Unity Issue Tracker](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/parent-and-child-nested-scriptable-object-assets-switch-places-when-parent-scriptable-object-asset-is-renamed).

## Warning about \_AdditionalLights property when upgrading the URP package

In certain cases, you might see the following warning when upgrading the URP package to a newer version:

```
Property (_AdditionalLights<...>) exceeds previous array size (256 vs 16). Cap to previous size.
```

This warning does not cause issues with the project, the warning disappears if you restart the Editor.

Commit message:

[2022.3] Improve build time using the URP Config Package and some small updates
- port of trunk PR https://github.cds.internal.unity3d.com/unity/unity/pull/42210
- only difference is in this [commit](https://github.cds.internal.unity3d.com/unity/unity/pull/42221/commits/14935adcd16f52a26e74fa8e0773cb5a94901e5c)

JIRA: https://jira.unity3d.com/browse/DOCG-4931

Documentation~/known-issues.md, after:

# Known issues

This page contains information on known issues you may encounter when using URP.

## Long build times when using the Forward+ Rendering Path

Due to the wide variety of use cases, target platforms, renderers, and features used in projects, certain URP configurations can result in a large number of shader variants. That can lead to long compilation times.

Long shader compilation time affects both player build time and the time for a scene to render in the Editor.

The per-camera visible light limit value affects the compilation time for each **Lit** and **Complex Lit** shader variant. In the Forward+ Rendering Path, on desktop platforms, that limit is 256.

Refer to the following page to learn how to reduce the build time in the Forward+ Rendering Path by reducing the maximum number of visible lights:

* [Reduce build time in Forward+ Rendering Path](rendering/forward-plus-rendering-path.md#reduce-build-time)

## When importing the URP package samples, Unity does not set the necessary URP asset in Quality > Render Pipeline Asset<a name="urp-samples-known-issue-1"></a>

When importing the URP package samples, Unity does not set the necessary URP asset in **Quality** > **Render Pipeline Asset**, and certain sample rendering effects do not work.

To fix this issue:

In **Project Settings** > **Quality** > **Render Pipeline Asset**, select `SamplesPipelineAsset`.

![In Project Settings > Quality > Render Pipeline Asset, select SamplesPipelineAsset](Images/known-issues/urp-12-package-samples.png)

## Renaming a URP Renderer asset to a name matching one of the Renderer Feature names causes erroneous behavior

If a URP Renderer asset has any Renderer Features assigned, renaming the Renderer asset to a name matching one of the Renderer Feature names causes erroneous behavior: the URP Renderer and the Renderer Feature switch places.

The following scenario shows how the error occurs:

* Let's assume that the URP Renderer in your project is called `UniversalRenderer`.
* The Renderer has a Renderer Feature called `NewRenderObjects` assigned.

    ![UniversalRenderer with Renderer Feature assigned to it.](Images/known-issues/urp-10-renaming-renderer.png)

* Renaming `UniversalRenderer` to `NewRenderObjects` causes erroneous behavior:<br/>The Renderer switches places with the Renderer Feature and does not behave correctly.

To avoid the issue, do not give the URP Renderer asset the same name as the Renderer Feature asset.

To see updates on this issue, refer to the [Unity Issue Tracker](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/parent-and-child-nested-scriptable-object-assets-switch-places-when-parent-scriptable-object-asset-is-renamed).

## Warning about \_AdditionalLights property when upgrading the URP package

In certain cases, you might see the following warning when upgrading the URP package to a newer version:

```
Property (_AdditionalLights<...>) exceeds previous array size (256 vs 16). Cap to previous size.
```

This warning does not cause issues with the project, the warning disappears if you restart the Editor.
