Documentation~/lighting.md, before:

# Lighting in the Universal Render Pipeline

Using the Universal Render Pipeline (URP), you can achieve realistic lighting that is suitable for a range of art styles.

All of Unity's render pipelines share common lighting functionality, but each render pipeline has some important differences.

Areas where the Universal Render Pipeline (URP) differs from Unity's common lighting functionality are:

* The [Light component inspector](light-component.md), which displays some URP-specific controls.
* The [Universal Additional Light Data](universal-additional-light-data.md) component, which allows Unity to store Light-related data that is specific to URP.
* Enlighten Realtime Global Illumination is supported in URP from version 12. For more information, see [Realtime Global Illumination using Enlighten](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/realtime-gi-using-enlighten.html).

For a full comparison of lighting features between Unity's Built-in Render Pipeline and URP, and an up to date list of lighting features that are currently under research, see [this feature comparison chart](universalrp-builtin-feature-comparison.md).

For a general introduction to lighting in Unity and examples of common lighting workflows, see [the Lighting section of the Unity Manual](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/LightingOverview.html).

## Configure lighting for better performance

Refer to [Configure for better performance](configure-for-better-performance.md) for more information about how to adjust lighting settings for better performance.

## Additional resources

* [Universal Render Pipeline for advanced Unity creators](https://unity.com/resources/introduction-universal-render-pipeline-for-advanced-unity-creators-2022lts)
* [Shedding some light on the Universal Render Pipeline](https://blog.unity.com/engine-platform/shedding-light-on-universal-render-pipeline-for-unity-2021-lts)
* [Optimize your Unity project with URP](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NFBr21V0zvU&ab_channel=Unity)
* [Creating Believable Visuals](https://learn.unity.com/tutorial/creating-believable-visuals)
* [Creative Core: Lighting](https://learn.unity.com/project/creative-core-lighting)

Commit message:

2022.3 DOCG-5651 Backport: Lighting Docs Overhaul
Backports DOCG-1014 work to 2022.3 URP Docs

Documentation~/lighting.md, after:

# Lighting in the Universal Render Pipeline

Using the Universal Render Pipeline (URP), you can achieve realistic lighting that is suitable for a range of art styles.

| Page | Description |
|-|-|
| [Lighting in URP](lighting/lighting-in-urp.md) | Understand the differences between Unity's common lighting functionality and the lighting functionality in URP.|
| [Light component reference](light-component.md) | Understand how each lighting property works in URP. |
| [The Universal Additional Light Data component](universal-additional-light-data.md) | Use the Universal Additional Light Data component to override lighting settings in URP. |
| [Lighting Mode](urp-lighting-mode.md) | Understand which lighting modes URP supports. |
| [Shadows in the URP](Shadows-in-URP.md) | How to work with shadows in URP. |
| [Reflection Probes](lighting/reflection-probes.md) | Configure the URP-specific behavior of Reflection Probes.  |
| [Lens Flare Data Asset](shared/lens-flare/lens-flare-asset.md) | Understand how to use the Lens Flare Data Asset in URP. |

## Configure lighting for better performance

Refer to [Configure for better performance](configure-for-better-performance.md) for more information about how to adjust lighting settings for better performance.

## Additional resources

* [Universal Render Pipeline for advanced Unity creators](https://unity.com/resources/introduction-universal-render-pipeline-for-advanced-unity-creators-2022lts)
* [Shedding some light on the Universal Render Pipeline](https://blog.unity.com/engine-platform/shedding-light-on-universal-render-pipeline-for-unity-2021-lts)
* [Optimize your Unity project with URP](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NFBr21V0zvU&ab_channel=Unity)
* [Creating Believable Visuals](https://learn.unity.com/tutorial/creating-believable-visuals)
* [Creative Core: Lighting](https://learn.unity.com/project/creative-core-lighting)
