Documentation~/writing-shaders-urp-basic-unlit-structure.md, before:

# URP unlit basic shader

This example shows a basic URP-compatible shader. This shader fills the mesh shape with a color predefined in the shader code.

To see the shader in action, copy and paste the following ShaderLab code into the Shader asset.

```c++
// This shader fills the mesh shape with a color predefined in the code.
Shader "Example/URPUnlitShaderBasic"
{
    // The properties block of the Unity shader. In this example this block is empty
    // because the output color is predefined in the fragment shader code.
    Properties
    { }

    // The SubShader block containing the Shader code.
    SubShader
    {
        // SubShader Tags define when and under which conditions a SubShader block or
        // a pass is executed.
        Tags { "RenderType" = "Opaque" "RenderPipeline" = "UniversalPipeline" }

        Pass
        {
            // The HLSL code block. Unity SRP uses the HLSL language.
            HLSLPROGRAM
            // This line defines the name of the vertex shader.
            #pragma vertex vert
            // This line defines the name of the fragment shader.
            #pragma fragment frag

            // The Core.hlsl file contains definitions of frequently used HLSL
            // macros and functions, and also contains #include references to other
            // HLSL files (for example, Common.hlsl, SpaceTransforms.hlsl, etc.).
            #include "Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.universal/ShaderLibrary/Core.hlsl"

            // The structure definition defines which variables it contains.
            // This example uses the Attributes structure as an input structure in
            // the vertex shader.
            struct Attributes
            {
                // The positionOS variable contains the vertex positions in object
                // space.
                float4 positionOS   : POSITION;
            };

            struct Varyings
            {
                // The positions in this struct must have the SV_POSITION semantic.
                float4 positionHCS  : SV_POSITION;
            };

            // The vertex shader definition with properties defined in the Varyings
            // structure. The type of the vert function must match the type (struct)
            // that it returns.
            Varyings vert(Attributes IN)
            {
                // Declaring the output object (OUT) with the Varyings struct.
                Varyings OUT;
                // The TransformObjectToHClip function transforms vertex positions
                // from object space to homogenous clip space.
                OUT.positionHCS = TransformObjectToHClip(IN.positionOS.xyz);
                // Returning the output.
                return OUT;
            }

            // The fragment shader definition.
            half4 frag() : SV_Target
            {
                // Defining the color variable and returning it.
                half4 customColor = half4(0.5, 0, 0, 1);
                return customColor;
            }
            ENDHLSL
        }
    }
}
```

The fragment shader colors the GameObject dark red (RGB value (0.5, 0, 0)).

![The shader paints the GameObject dark red](Images/shader-examples/unlit-shader-tutorial-basic-hardcoded-color.png)

The following section introduces you to the structure of this basic Unity shader.

<a name="basic-shaderlab-structure"></a>

## Basic ShaderLab structure

Unity shaders are written in a Unity-specific language called [ShaderLab](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/SL-Shader.html).

The Unity shader in this example has the following blocks:

* [Shader](#shader)
* [Properties](#properties)
* [SubShader](#subshader)
* [Pass](#pass)
* [HLSLPROGRAM](#hlsl)

### <a name="shader"></a>Shader block

ShaderLab code starts with the `Shader` declaration.

```c++
Shader "Example/URPUnlitShaderBasic"
```

The path in this declaration determines the display name and location of the Unity shader in the Shader menu on a Material. The method [Shader.Find](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/Shader.Find.html) also uses this path.

![Location of the shader in the Shader menu on a Material](Images/shader-examples/urp-material-ui-shader-path.png)

### <a name="properties"></a>Properties block

The [Properties](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/SL-Properties.html) block contains the declarations of properties that users can set in the Inspector window on a Material.

In this example, the Properties block is empty, because this Unity shader does not expose any Material properties that a user can define.

### <a name="subshader"></a>SubShader block

A Unity shader source file contains one or more [SubShader](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/SL-SubShader.html) blocks. When rendering a mesh, Unity selects the first SubShader that is compatible with the GPU on the target device.

A SubShader block can optionally contain a SubShader Tags block. Use the `Tags` keyword to declare a SubShader Tags block.

```
Tags { "RenderType" = "Opaque" "RenderPipeline" = "UniversalPipeline" }
```

A SubShader Tag with a name of `RenderPipeline` tells Unity which render pipelines to use this SubShader with, and the value of `UniversalPipeline` indicates that Unity should use this SubShader with URP.

To execute the same shader in different render pipelines, create multiple SubShader blocks with different `RenderPipeline` tag values. To execute a SubShader block in HDRP, set the `RenderPipeline` tag to `HDRenderPipeline`, to execute it in the Built-in Render Pipeline, set `RenderPipeline` to an empty value.

For more information on SubShader Tags, see [ShaderLab: SubShader Tags](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/SL-SubShaderTags.html).

### <a name="pass"></a>Pass block

In this example, there is one Pass block that contains the HLSL program code. For more information on Pass blocks, see [ShaderLab: Pass](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/SL-Pass.html).

A Pass block can optionally contain a Pass tags block. For more information, see [URP ShaderLab Pass tags](urp-shaders/urp-shaderlab-pass-tags.md).

### <a name="hlsl"></a>HLSLPROGRAM block

This block contains the HLSL program code.

> **NOTE**: HLSL language is the preferred language for URP shaders.

> **NOTE**: URP supports the CG language. If you add the CGPROGRAM/ENDCGPROGRAM block in a shader, Unity includes shaders from the Built-in Render Pipeline library automatically. If you include shaders from the SRP shader library, some SRP shader macros and functions might conflict with the Built-in Render Pipeline shader functions. Shaders with the CGPROGRAM block are not SRP Batcher compatible.

This block contains the `#include` declaration with the reference to the `Core.hlsl` file.

```c++
#include "Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.universal/ShaderLibrary/Core.hlsl"
```

The `Core.hlsl` file contains definitions of frequently used HLSL macros and functions, and also contains #include references to other HLSL files (for example, `Common.hlsl` and  `SpaceTransforms.hlsl`).

For example, the vertex shader in the HLSL code uses the `TransformObjectToHClip` function from the `SpaceTransforms.hlsl` file. The function transforms vertex positions from object space to homogenous space:

```c++
Varyings vert(Attributes IN)
{
    Varyings OUT;
    OUT.positionHCS = TransformObjectToHClip(IN.positionOS.xyz);
    return OUT;
}
```

The fragment shader in this basic HLSL code outputs the single color predefined in the code:

```c++
half4 frag() : SV_Target
{
    half4 customColor;
    customColor = half4(0.5, 0, 0, 1);
    return customColor;
}
```

Section [URP unlit shader with color input](writing-shaders-urp-unlit-color.md) shows how to add the editable color property in the Inspector window on the Material.

Commit message:

2022.3 URP Docs: Fixes and Style Guide Change Backport
Minor style guide and link fixes
Backport Accessible Language update to replace "see" with "refer to"

Documentation~/writing-shaders-urp-basic-unlit-structure.md, after:

# URP unlit basic shader

This example shows a basic URP-compatible shader. This shader fills the mesh shape with a color predefined in the shader code.

To see the shader in action, copy and paste the following ShaderLab code into the Shader asset.

```c++
// This shader fills the mesh shape with a color predefined in the code.
Shader "Example/URPUnlitShaderBasic"
{
    // The properties block of the Unity shader. In this example this block is empty
    // because the output color is predefined in the fragment shader code.
    Properties
    { }

    // The SubShader block containing the Shader code.
    SubShader
    {
        // SubShader Tags define when and under which conditions a SubShader block or
        // a pass is executed.
        Tags { "RenderType" = "Opaque" "RenderPipeline" = "UniversalPipeline" }

        Pass
        {
            // The HLSL code block. Unity SRP uses the HLSL language.
            HLSLPROGRAM
            // This line defines the name of the vertex shader.
            #pragma vertex vert
            // This line defines the name of the fragment shader.
            #pragma fragment frag

            // The Core.hlsl file contains definitions of frequently used HLSL
            // macros and functions, and also contains #include references to other
            // HLSL files (for example, Common.hlsl, SpaceTransforms.hlsl, etc.).
            #include "Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.universal/ShaderLibrary/Core.hlsl"

            // The structure definition defines which variables it contains.
            // This example uses the Attributes structure as an input structure in
            // the vertex shader.
            struct Attributes
            {
                // The positionOS variable contains the vertex positions in object
                // space.
                float4 positionOS   : POSITION;
            };

            struct Varyings
            {
                // The positions in this struct must have the SV_POSITION semantic.
                float4 positionHCS  : SV_POSITION;
            };

            // The vertex shader definition with properties defined in the Varyings
            // structure. The type of the vert function must match the type (struct)
            // that it returns.
            Varyings vert(Attributes IN)
            {
                // Declaring the output object (OUT) with the Varyings struct.
                Varyings OUT;
                // The TransformObjectToHClip function transforms vertex positions
                // from object space to homogenous clip space.
                OUT.positionHCS = TransformObjectToHClip(IN.positionOS.xyz);
                // Returning the output.
                return OUT;
            }

            // The fragment shader definition.
            half4 frag() : SV_Target
            {
                // Defining the color variable and returning it.
                half4 customColor = half4(0.5, 0, 0, 1);
                return customColor;
            }
            ENDHLSL
        }
    }
}
```

The fragment shader colors the GameObject dark red (RGB value (0.5, 0, 0)).

![The shader paints the GameObject dark red](Images/shader-examples/unlit-shader-tutorial-basic-hardcoded-color.png)

The following section introduces you to the structure of this basic Unity shader.

<a name="basic-shaderlab-structure"></a>

## Basic ShaderLab structure

Unity shaders are written in a Unity-specific language called [ShaderLab](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/SL-Shader.html).

The Unity shader in this example has the following blocks:

* [Shader](#shader)
* [Properties](#properties)
* [SubShader](#subshader)
* [Pass](#pass)
* [HLSLPROGRAM](#hlsl)

### <a name="shader"></a>Shader block

ShaderLab code starts with the `Shader` declaration.

```c++
Shader "Example/URPUnlitShaderBasic"
```

The path in this declaration determines the display name and location of the Unity shader in the Shader menu on a Material. The method [Shader.Find](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/Shader.Find.html) also uses this path.

![Location of the shader in the Shader menu on a Material](Images/shader-examples/urp-material-ui-shader-path.png)

### <a name="properties"></a>Properties block

The [Properties](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/SL-Properties.html) block contains the declarations of properties that users can set in the Inspector window on a Material.

In this example, the Properties block is empty, because this Unity shader does not expose any Material properties that a user can define.

### <a name="subshader"></a>SubShader block

A Unity shader source file contains one or more [SubShader](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/SL-SubShader.html) blocks. When rendering a mesh, Unity selects the first SubShader that is compatible with the GPU on the target device.

A SubShader block can optionally contain a SubShader Tags block. Use the `Tags` keyword to declare a SubShader Tags block.

```
Tags { "RenderType" = "Opaque" "RenderPipeline" = "UniversalPipeline" }
```

A SubShader Tag with a name of `RenderPipeline` tells Unity which render pipelines to use this SubShader with, and the value of `UniversalPipeline` indicates that Unity should use this SubShader with URP.

To execute the same shader in different render pipelines, create multiple SubShader blocks with different `RenderPipeline` tag values. To execute a SubShader block in HDRP, set the `RenderPipeline` tag to `HDRenderPipeline`, to execute it in the Built-in Render Pipeline, set `RenderPipeline` to an empty value.

For more information on SubShader Tags, refer to [ShaderLab: SubShader Tags](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/SL-SubShaderTags.html).

### <a name="pass"></a>Pass block

In this example, there is one Pass block that contains the HLSL program code. For more information on Pass blocks, refer to [ShaderLab: Pass](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/SL-Pass.html).

A Pass block can optionally contain a Pass tags block. For more information, refer to [URP ShaderLab Pass tags](urp-shaders/urp-shaderlab-pass-tags.md).

### <a name="hlsl"></a>HLSLPROGRAM block

This block contains the HLSL program code.

> **NOTE**: HLSL language is the preferred language for URP shaders.

> **NOTE**: URP supports the CG language. If you add the CGPROGRAM/ENDCGPROGRAM block in a shader, Unity includes shaders from the Built-in Render Pipeline library automatically. If you include shaders from the SRP shader library, some SRP shader macros and functions might conflict with the Built-in Render Pipeline shader functions. Shaders with the CGPROGRAM block are not SRP Batcher compatible.

This block contains the `#include` declaration with the reference to the `Core.hlsl` file.

```c++
#include "Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.universal/ShaderLibrary/Core.hlsl"
```

The `Core.hlsl` file contains definitions of frequently used HLSL macros and functions, and also contains #include references to other HLSL files (for example, `Common.hlsl` and  `SpaceTransforms.hlsl`).

For example, the vertex shader in the HLSL code uses the `TransformObjectToHClip` function from the `SpaceTransforms.hlsl` file. The function transforms vertex positions from object space to homogenous space:

```c++
Varyings vert(Attributes IN)
{
    Varyings OUT;
    OUT.positionHCS = TransformObjectToHClip(IN.positionOS.xyz);
    return OUT;
}
```

The fragment shader in this basic HLSL code outputs the single color predefined in the code:

```c++
half4 frag() : SV_Target
{
    half4 customColor;
    customColor = half4(0.5, 0, 0, 1);
    return customColor;
}
```

Section [URP unlit shader with color input](writing-shaders-urp-unlit-color.md) shows how to add the editable color property in the Inspector window on the Material.
